README.md, before:

# Overview
## Project Structure
```
.
+-  _AprilTag
+-- _apriltags                      # home directory for all of the AprilTag software
|   +-- _example
|   +-- _scripts                    # home directory for the python script pipeline
|       +-- move_road_to_back.py
|       +-- normalize_road.py
|       +-- process_visualize.py    # adds a frame count to the matlab output from visualize -> .csv
|       +-- rot_matrix.solve.py     # attempts to solve for calibration between road & back cams
|   +-- Makefile                    # run make in apriltags/ to build the AprilTag library
|   +-- CMakeLists.txt              # CMake is called in the make process to build the C++ exe
+-- _output                         # write & defacto read folder for data in the python scripts
|   +-- _MOHAMMED DRIVING
|       +-- BACK_DATA_FRAMES.csv
|       +-- ... more unused files
|   +--_TIANJING DRIVING
|       +-- ROAD_CLEAR_2.csv
|       +-- BACK_CLEAR_2.csv
+-- visualize_2
|   +-- Visualize_2.py              # python script to calculate center of mass from 
back data
|   +-- mesh_calib.npy              # calibration file required for Visualize_2.py to work properly
|   +-- rotation_functions.py       # library module for rotation calculations in Visualize_2
```

## AprilTags library

Detect April tags (2D bar codes) in images; reports unique ID of each
detection, and optionally its position and orientation relative to a
calibrated camera.

See examples/apriltags_demo.cpp for a simple example that detects
April tags (see tags/pdf/tag36h11.pdf) in laptop or webcam images and
marks any tags in the live image.

Ubuntu dependencies:
sudo apt-get install subversion cmake libopencv-dev libeigen3-dev libv4l-dev

Mac dependencies:
sudo port install pkgconfig opencv eigen3

Uses the pods build system in connection with cmake, see:
http://sourceforge.net/p/pods/

Michael Kaess
October 2012

----------------------------

AprilTags were developed by Professor Edwin Olson of the University of
Michigan.  His Java implementation is available on this web site:
  http://april.eecs.umich.edu.

Olson's Java code was ported to C++ and integrated into the Tekkotsu
framework by Jeffrey Boyland and David Touretzky.

See this Tekkotsu wiki article for additional links and references:
  http://wiki.tekkotsu.org/index.php/AprilTags

----------------------------

This C++ code was further modified by
Michael Kaess (kaess@mit.edu) and Hordur Johannson (hordurj@mit.edu)
and the code has been released under the LGPL 2.1 license.

- converted to standalone library
- added stable homography recovery using OpenCV
- robust tag code table that does not require a terminating 0
  (omission results in false positives by illegal codes being accepted)
- changed example tags to agree with Ed Olson's Java version and added
  all his other tag families
- added principal point as parameter as in original code - essential
  for homography
- added some debugging code (visualization using OpenCV to show
  intermediate detection steps)
- added fast approximation of arctan2 from Ed's original Java code
- using interpolation instead of homography in Quad: requires less
  homography computations and provides a small improvement in correct
  detections

todo:
- significant speedup could be achieved by performing image operations
  using OpenCV (Gaussian filter, but also operations in
  TagDetector.cc)
- replacing arctan2 by precomputed lookup table
- converting matrix operations to Eigen (mostly for simplifying code,
  maybe some speedup)

Commit message:

added Script Pipeline description to README.md

README.md, after:

# Overview
## File Structure
```
.
+-  _AprilTag
+-- _apriltags                      # home directory for all of the AprilTag software
|   +-- _example
|   +-- _scripts                    # home directory for the python script pipeline
|       +-- move_road_to_back.py
|       +-- normalize_road.py
|       +-- process_visualize.py    # adds a frame count to the matlab output from visualize -> .csv
|       +-- rot_matrix.solve.py     # attempts to solve for calibration between road & back cams
|   +-- Makefile                    # run make in apriltags/ to build the AprilTag library
|   +-- CMakeLists.txt              # CMake is called in the make process to build the C++ exe
+-- _output                         # write & defacto read folder for data in the python scripts
|   +-- _MOHAMMED DRIVING
|       +-- BACK_DATA_FRAMES.csv
|       +-- ... more unused files
|   +--_TIANJING DRIVING
|       +-- ROAD_CLEAR_2.csv
|       +-- BACK_CLEAR_2.csv
+-- visualize_2
|   +-- Visualize_2.py              # python script to calculate center of mass from 
back data
|   +-- mesh_calib.npy              # calibration file required for Visualize_2.py to work properly
|   +-- rotation_functions.py       # library module for rotation calculations in Visualize_2
```
## Script Pipeline
Calling run.sh in `AprilTags/` will do the following things.
  1) `AprilTag` on the road facing video and back facing video -> `output/road.csv`, `output/back.csv` - this will take a very long time
  2) Run `scripts/move_road_to_back.py` -> `output/road_proj_to_back.csv`
  3) Run `visualize_2/Visualize_2.py` on `back.csv` -> `visualize_2/meshsave_back_2.mat`
  4) Run `scripts/standardize_visualize.py` on `meshsave_back_2.mat` -> `output/visualize_frames.csv` 
  5) Run `scripts/standarize_road.py` on `road.csv` -> `road_normalized.csv`
  6) Run `scripts/road_to_face.py` on `visualize_frames.csv` & `road_normalized.csv` and the frame offset -> `face_data.csv`
  7) `NOT DONE` Run `scripts/extract_face_frames.py` -> labelled face images in `imgs/*`

## AprilTags library

Detect April tags (2D bar codes) in images; reports unique ID of each
detection, and optionally its position and orientation relative to a
calibrated camera.

See examples/apriltags_demo.cpp for a simple example that detects
April tags (see tags/pdf/tag36h11.pdf) in laptop or webcam images and
marks any tags in the live image.

Ubuntu dependencies:
sudo apt-get install subversion cmake libopencv-dev libeigen3-dev libv4l-dev

Mac dependencies:
sudo port install pkgconfig opencv eigen3

Uses the pods build system in connection with cmake, see:
http://sourceforge.net/p/pods/

Michael Kaess
October 2012

----------------------------

AprilTags were developed by Professor Edwin Olson of the University of
Michigan.  His Java implementation is available on this web site:
  http://april.eecs.umich.edu.

Olson's Java code was ported to C++ and integrated into the Tekkotsu
framework by Jeffrey Boyland and David Touretzky.

See this Tekkotsu wiki article for additional links and references:
  http://wiki.tekkotsu.org/index.php/AprilTags

----------------------------

This C++ code was further modified by
Michael Kaess (kaess@mit.edu) and Hordur Johannson (hordurj@mit.edu)
and the code has been released under the LGPL 2.1 license.

- converted to standalone library
- added stable homography recovery using OpenCV
- robust tag code table that does not require a terminating 0
  (omission results in false positives by illegal codes being accepted)
- changed example tags to agree with Ed Olson's Java version and added
  all his other tag families
- added principal point as parameter as in original code - essential
  for homography
- added some debugging code (visualization using OpenCV to show
  intermediate detection steps)
- added fast approximation of arctan2 from Ed's original Java code
- using interpolation instead of homography in Quad: requires less
  homography computations and provides a small improvement in correct
  detections

todo:
- significant speedup could be achieved by performing image operations
  using OpenCV (Gaussian filter, but also operations in
  TagDetector.cc)
- replacing arctan2 by precomputed lookup table
- converting matrix operations to Eigen (mostly for simplifying code,
  maybe some speedup)
